Gal, 36 years old, a lawyer by training, works as a sales manager in a large company. In his position, he was often required to present to small and large forums and for years he did so with great success while reaching great professional achievements. In the last two years, he felt anxious before business meetings and presentations and starting six months before his arrival for treatment, he experienced several anxiety attacks, some of them paralyzing. As a result, he canceled several important meetings or sent someone else in his place. The reason for the referral was the anxiety attacks and it came after a lack of success in cognitive behavioral therapy.

Gal is happily married with two small children, he maintains a healthy lifestyle, exercises a lot and since the beginning of the anxiety has even added a weekly practice of yoga and meditation to his routine.

In the treatment he underwent before arriving at the EMDR treatment, he correctly underwent the classical treatment for the treatment of anxiety which included relaxation exercises, dealing with anxiety-provoking thoughts and practicing these skills in different situations, either in imagination or in reality. But without significant improvement, on the contrary, the failures he experienced in dealing with real situations during his aftercare loosened his hands and he began to examine other employment options that would not confront him with his anxieties.

In the first meeting, Gal was asked to recall the first time he felt anxiety. He described a simple work meeting for him but noted that he had already arrived with a degree of uneasiness. He attributed this restlessness to the fact that in the morning, when he got dressed and got ready for the meeting, he felt that he had gained some weight. In deepening this statement, it became clear that Gal was a fat boy who was bullied a lot in elementary school because of his appearance and weight. He described experiences such as, for example, children would sneak up behind him and "grab the shape, it hurts the tires in my stomach", in sports lessons they would laugh about "my breasts", yes, different songs and nicknames for him "won" due to his weight, social isolation and even a boycott in the third grade. He noted that at the beginning of his studies in high school he began a strict regime of diet and sports which he adheres to to this day. He described a great sensitivity to his body, he finds himself examining his body in depth and trying to make sure that there is no unnecessary fat, he avoids going shirtless in the sea and the pool (even though "on his face I understand that I look fine"), he changes shirts during training when he sweats for fear that others will see "Describes my body" and even described that when walking against the wind "I play with the shirt that won't stick to my body".

Gal went on to describe low self-esteem, a belief that his body is repulsive and may make others not want to be in his company, and anxiety about any sign of a negative change in his appearance or body shape. One could get the impression that his discomfort with his body, which is based on his long and difficult childhood experiences, are the basis for the anxieties that Gal Hava experiences in the context of his work, but which largely govern and dictate his lifestyle in many other places.

Beyond the first session, the treatment included eight EMDR sessions and two additional sessions, one of which was the final session. In the first stage, the treatment focused on Gal's traumatic memories from school and their impact on his self-image and his functioning today more than 20 years since they happened. Gal knew how to change his basic perception that he is ridiculed and worthless and that anyone can see this just by a quick glance at his "fat, disproportioned and very unaesthetic" body into a strong inner statement that he has come a long way since being a fat and socially marginalized child where not only He underwent a physical change but achieved significant achievements in the army, in his studies, in his professional career as well as in his social life and relationship. These, to his changing understanding, are the basis for understanding who he really is and hence for a change in his self-image.

In additional meetings, we discussed what would happen if his body changes (which can certainly happen with puberty and lifestyle changes) in order to strengthen the internal perception that "my body and only my body determines who I am and what I am worth". It should be noted that during the treatment we did not deal at all with his anxiety in professional meetings or presentations and these faded on their own as Gal's self-image and self-perception changed.