When Oren (pseudonym) comes to our weekly meeting, he looks detached, pale, tired. His head is lowered and he does not look up at me, when he raises his eyes for a moment I see sadness and despair in them. After a few moments of silence I ask how is he? And Oren says he is discouraged, but does not expand beyond that. Oren has been in my care for the fourth year.

He is 18 years old. His life story is difficult - he is a survivor of incest that happened when he was a toddler. Since then, he moved between artistic families and boarding schools, and was hospitalized for several months in a psychiatric hospital (when he was 11 years old), due to behavioral disorders and self-risk. He came to my care when he was 14 years old, in the framework in which I worked, and a courageous bond was formed between us. I accompanied him as a movement therapist.

Movement therapy is one of the areas of specialization of expression and creation therapy and is a mental therapy that also treats the body as a tool for expression and expression. The treatment dealt with his integration into the framework, his preoccupation with his sexual identity, his fear of maturing and growing, his past trauma.

As the relationship between us deepened, Oren allowed himself to bring more and more difficult places and aggressive impulses. In the third year of treatment, we moved to meetings twice a week and Oren began to tell about nightmares related to the injury he had suffered, revealing other injuries and assaults he had suffered over the years that he had not talked about until now.

He began to use the body and movement more as a connection to life, forces and an experience of control. After yoga accompanied the treatment all the way, we decided together to dedicate a quarter of an hour of our two weekly meetings to practicing yoga. Oren defines that part of his problem is that he is "unable to say no" (not only in sex) and he is very interested in acquiring control. We work with a combination of yoga and conversations, in positions that work on strength, control, grounding and balance, to strengthen the connection between the body and its mind. Oren manages to perform many challenging poses such as headstand, handstand and more.

The second weekly meeting is dedicated to the verbal elaboration of his experiences and his emotional world. Oren brings dreams and songs in which he mainly describes himself as an alien, lonely and inhuman. At the same time, during this period, signs of better control of his life emerge.

What is happening in our brain?

Oren went through many traumas in his childhood and in his short life. Trauma, especially one that occurs in childhood, affects all levels of a person - physically, emotionally, cognitively and mentally. Stressful situations and trauma in childhood affect the development of the brain and nervous system and cause the phenomenon we know as a tendency to self-destruction and the reconstruction of the trauma, in trauma survivors. In a stressful situation - we too, like other mammals (studies were conducted for example on mice in such situations) - choose the familiar situation, even if it is unpleasant.

The studies point to what happens in response to stress in the brain and nervous system. The limbic system and especially the amygdala has a great involvement in responding to stressful situations. When stress hormones are secreted, especially adrenaline and noradrenaline in times of danger, information does not properly reach the cortex, which is the area of ​​the brain where the ability for rational thinking, processing and what we call judgment is found.

The insecure attachment at the beginning of life affects the development of the right lobe of the brain in a way that exposes the person to a higher risk of suffering from post-trauma later in life. 50%-60% of people experience traumatic events in their lives, but only about 5%-10% will develop a post-traumatic reaction. It turns out that this tendency is related to attachment patterns and the development of the right lobe of the brain in the first two years of life.

In the past, it was thought that what heals trauma is recalling it during treatment, bringing the patient to catharsis and thus a solution and weakening of the symptoms. Today we know that this is not the case. Moreover, treatment that strives to open up the patient before he is ready for it can worsen symptoms to the point of danger to the patient. Treating someone who has been traumatized is much less dramatic than reviving the trauma. In fact, continuity and stability in treatment are what build a real basis for emotional regulation. This is a process that requires patience and persistence. At the beginning of the treatment, there is a need to create a feeling of grounding of reality, a therapeutic relationship with a secure attachment figure. Safe and successful trauma treatment must maintain low levels of stress hormones, to allow the thinking processes to function (as mentioned, when the cortex is not working). Oren's treatment relies on this contemporary approach to trauma treatment.

and back to the treatment room and meeting

Oren says he is discouraged, but fails to elaborate. This is the weekly meeting where we are supposed to practice yoga, but since I recognize that he is not in a good state, I try to dub him, of course without success. Later I find myself talking too much. Meanwhile, I feel that it is difficult for me to reach him, that he is far away. It conveys despair and hopelessness. I understand that I drifted into despair and panic with him, and my response to that is overdoing it, instead of being with him. I notice that my heart rate is fast, that I'm sweating. I stop

We sit for a few moments in silence, after which I suggest that we keep the regular therapeutic framework and turn to the yoga practice. Oren agrees and we start practicing quietly. I guide him to some standing positions in the usual order. At first he is a little stiff and frozen, but during the practice of standing postures that work on strength, stability and grounding, he thaws a little and later practices handstands, headstands and shoulderstands. After a short relaxation we go back to sitting and I notice that Oren looks a little calmer, the color has returned to his cheeks.

Now we are sitting and he is able to look at me and talk. He tells me that he was on Shabbat vacation from boarding school and stayed at his grandmother's house. When his grandmother left the house, he had sex with a boy from the neighborhood. He describes that he didn't want to but did it anyway and now feels disgusted with himself, shame, disappointment and anger. He is afraid that he has disappointed me too. In addition, he experienced a lot of anger and fights with his grandmother on the weekend (not on this background, she didn't know about the sexual relationship). We talk about these issues in the time left for the meeting.

So what actually happened there?

According to my understanding, when Oren entered the meeting, he had signs of overstimulation of the nervous system. A rush of adrenaline and other stress hormones made him feel threatened and confused. This was also manifested in the paleness, the frozen sitting and the inability to speak. He was disconnected.