Anna was accepted in our department as a functioning girl - a member of the student council, an instructor in patrol circles, a good student. The like-normal part of her, the one that maintains the functioning and intact appearance, was working well, and it was hard to believe how damaged she was. She was hospitalized in the ward due to a suicide attempt she made.

In the first days of treatment, Anna went from having difficulty explaining why she felt so hopeless, to describing a course of life marked by emotional neglect from home and social rejection that was reproduced in the various settings in which she was. In our first meetings, Anna revealed a story about inappropriate and continuous sexual contact over years with three cousins ​​who are close to her in age. She never talked about it before the hospitalization. Now, since the dam broke, she spoke and shared in many situations. She described games of hide and seek that turned into sexual games, and over the years also into violent and humiliating interactions. She dubbed years that passed without a voice. Situations where other family members could, perhaps, pick up hints of harm, but didn't notice.

Astonishingly, Anna asked to testify with the police as soon as possible. She answered the researcher's questions eloquently, while calmly reporting the details of the various events. Anna seemed imbued with a goal to be heard, and to be seen, and testified to herself that she had "some strength needed" in order to get through this. At first, it seemed that opening up these difficult experiences, for the first time, within the therapeutic relationship that was created, would create a close and deep therapeutic alliance, and would make it possible to understand, process and hold the meaning of the suicide and the distress with which she arrived at the hospital. However, it is very quickly evident that instead of the intimacy of a relationship and the in-depth processing of content, Anna spreads and empties the hell of her soul on the environment, both in extreme actions and in stories.

When her testimony at the police ended, Anna immediately started a new project - she worked long hours on writing her life story: "Psychiatric hospitalization diary". The idea was to write to tell about a suffering that for years was transparent. Write to publish, so that the world can see and know what she went through. She contacted publishers and envisioned herself as a guest on morning shows, telling her story to everyone.

Soon the book turned from a description of her personal, private experiences into a boundless description that also mixes new experiences that happened to her during the hospitalization. In the ward, her stormy outbursts began, in which she shouted, hurt herself and sometimes also took off her clothes like a haunted house. In order to restrain her, she was held and restrained by the staff. These difficult situations were written in her book as violence and uncontrolled aggression from the environment towards her. In her formulations, she loaded details that included descriptions of self-harm, blood, sexuality and violence. She wrote to shock, and in our meetings she secretly explained that she was deliberately creating situations in the hospital, ones that she knew could be written in her book and would shock the reader.

It was clear that she is making a great effort to move the reader from his comfortable place. Like shooting traumatic substances in all directions. Shoots to throw herself out. Anna copied the book onto all the computers in the department, so that everyone who turned on the computer found a copy of the book on their desk.

At the meetings, for a long period of time, Anna was unable to speak spontaneously, and could not tell anything that she had not previously written in the book - every thought was directed to the fact that I, like everyone else, would read the book she was writing. I will read a lot, and as much as possible. And so I did. At the meetings I read in her presence, giving my own voice and intonation to the slurred words she typed.

Anna hardly listened. Instead, she was interested in which page we had reached, and wondered how many other events would happen to her in the department, about which she would have time to write until we meet again. Any attempt to dwell on a word, or a sentence, to understand a little more the experiences she described, was met with detached boredom on her part, and with laconic responses that she does not know how to explain, and it would be better if I read more in the book.

The events of the ward provided more and more traumatic material on which she wrote. The concern arose that Anna was using hospitalization in a way that was not beneficial to her, and perhaps even worsened her condition. Therefore, at times when there was a slight respite from suicidality, and even a loose connection to the motivation to return to her life, Anna was released from the post-hospital boarding ward, hoping that she would be able to continue treatment without being drawn to such a radical disintegration. But her condition worsened, and Anna returned each time to be re-hospitalized.

Over time, and with each hospitalization, the symptoms got worse. In addition, it seemed that in their formation they were also inspired by symptoms of other girls in the ward. For example, when a girl in a psychotic state fought the characters chasing her, Anna also began to see such characters, and behave in a similar way. Anna seemed to be buying herself story after story, dressing herself in his words. Her self-harm rivaled the forms of self-harm of other girls in the department, and included shocking acts: she swallowed dangerous objects, cut herself all over her body, tore out her hair, lay down on the road after returning from vacation, and many times ended up in the emergency room at a general hospital because of this, in order to get emergency treatment.

In addition, she told about auditory and visual hallucinations, in which she sometimes saw injured figures whom she had to save but without success, and sometimes threatening figures who intended to harm her. Everything was always too much and excessive, and without the possibility of her or her caregivers to calm down, and influence what was happening. Anna described her self-inflicted injuries and the hallucinations she experienced as seizures, and insisted on being diagnosed as psychotic and schizophrenic. She read the diagnosis book and knew how to explain how what was happening to her met the appropriate criteria for being sick.

In the drama that unfolded I felt unnecessary. That my words, like her words, add more stories that are not heard, excess words to what she has already told and labeled herself.

Anna fought for them to recognize that she had no control over what was happening to her. She wished they would help her, while she, out of the fit, screams, throws herself, throws herself like a heavy stone. falls where it falls Many times she put her head in a loop she made from a garment, waiting for someone to perceive the danger and remove it from her, just before disaster struck. Anna tried to get rid of the pain by throwing it to hell and whoever catches it will catch it. However, both the patients and the staff experienced her as someone who pretends, does bad things to herself and creates a lot of drama.