Work within the Department of Psychotherapy, School of Continuing Medical Studies, Tel-Aviv University - instructor Prof. Alexandrovich Dov - 1984

Dr. Mark Roitman


Description of the case


The treatment I present started in an open department of a hospital and continued as individual psychotherapeutic treatment for two and a half years in an ambulatory setting.

Aryeh, 24 years old, born in Israel, single, was admitted to an open ward with a referral from a regional clinic because of severe anxiety attacks, depression and suicidal thoughts.

Aryeh is the only son of a family of Holocaust survivors. His parents are from Eastern Europe, his 55-year-old father works as a newspaper distributor. The mother, 47 years old, a housewife. Both were in concentration camps.

The mother's family perished. We got married in Israel in 1953. Aryeh's mother had several miscarriages and in 1956 a daughter was born who died at the age of a few weeks. Arya was born in 1958.

The pregnancy was problematic and the mother lay in the hospital for several months under pregnancy protection. Arya developed as a normal child, there were no problems in early childhood. At the age of 6, he fell from the second floor balcony and, according to his mother, miraculously survived. This story is told at home on different occasions. Remembers himself in elementary school as a shy, fat kid with glasses. At the age of 15 he underwent surgery due to cryptorchidism and according to the mother, one testicle is less developed. He remembered that a doctor who examined his genital area asked him if he masturbated a lot.

Arye believed for a long time that the problem with the testicles was a result of masturbation. Around the same time, vitiligo disease was discovered when the spots that appeared and spread were in the chin, shoulders and genital area including the penis. Arya suffered greatly from the skin disease. He was ashamed of the spots and tried to hide them, avoiding undressing in the presence of friends and going to the beach.

His parents took him to many visits to different doctors in search of appropriate treatment. For years he used a cosmetic ointment that was brought to him from abroad.

Aryeh graduated from elementary school with honors and was accepted into the humanities major, but his father transferred him to a professional school for the electronics major, where he was a mediocre student. They took him private tutors in English and mathematics.

When Aryeh was 17, his mother was diagnosed with cancer and underwent a mastectomy. At home they tried to hide the mother's pain and suffering from Arya, but he heard her crying at night. Sometimes he was not sure if his mother was crying because of him or because of the illness and this caused him a severe feeling of helplessness and guilt. His mother also suffered from ulcers and after arguments with Arya she used to show that she was in pain.

After finishing high school, he enlisted in the air force and served 4 years as an electronics technician at an air force base close to home. During his studies in high school and during his military service, Aryeh had many friends with whom he grew up, studied and served with one of them at the same base.

In relations with his friends he was always a drag. Friends loved him for his honesty, loyalty and sense of humor. In relationships with girls he was always shy and felt inferior. He explained it to himself with spots on the skin. He was convinced that every girl would reject him because the spots must look disgusting to her.

At parties he used to sit on the side and did not dare to dance. When he was introduced to girls, he would cut off contact with them after the first or second meeting, claiming that they were not suitable for him and that they had many shortcomings.

At the base he used to shower before or after everyone else so as not to discover the stains. At every opportunity he would return home. Professionally you will perform satisfactorily. His relationship with his commander was good and he appreciated him as a mature and decent person. He had long conversations with the commander about his problems and the future.

During the entire period of military service, Aryeh was focused on his plans for the future when it was clear to him that he would study electronics. He saw his future as an electronics engineer "successful, with a sense of humor, a sharp tongue, with a beautiful wife, a new car. These fantasies covered up for Arie a feeling of inferiority and insecurity. They also helped Arie avoid looking for solutions to problems in the present. Despite this several times He wanted to talk to a psychologist at the base but he didn't have the courage to do so.

His parents told all his relatives and acquaintances that Aryeh was going to study electronic engineering. They were very proud of it and Aryeh felt a great responsibility placed on him.

For half a year he would spend whole days in the gym developing his body because he felt himself chubby and not athletic enough, which did not fit the image he built for himself.

He enrolled in the University of Electronic Engineering but was not accepted. His friend from high school and the army was also not accepted and decided to study chemical engineering. Arya did the same, even though he didn't know what he would have to learn and what he would do in the future with this profession.

With the start of school, Aryeh had to, for the first time in his life, leave home and live alone. His mother was very concerned about food and Arya would "carry" to his apartment after every weekend baskets full of food with a promise to his mother that he would eat 3 times a day and prepare salads and cooked lunches for himself.


Current disease


From the beginning of his studies, about 8 months before his hospitalization, he felt anxious. Was not able to organize the time. Spent a lot of time preparing meals, felt lonely (his friend got married before school started). He was preoccupied with thoughts that his friend was doing better than him.

During the lectures he was worried that he would not understand the lecturer and was indeed unable to concentrate. Stayed studying until late at night but felt that his output was zero and that he was not progressing in the material.

In the exam in the profession he was under a lot of stress, he was not able to absorb the content of the questions, he left the exam in the middle, he felt that his world had fallen on him. Failing two more exams, he felt he needed urgent mental help. He applied to a private institute but felt that he was not understood. returned home

He claimed that everything he did in his life was wrong, that he should have lived differently. Started reading books and articles about mental illness. Compare yourself with the descriptions in the literature. Most of the time he lay in bed, did not function, was ashamed to answer the phones. had trouble falling asleep at night. There were no changes in his condition during the day. Every few minutes he would run to the bathroom.

His parents tried to hide his condition and when they would ask on the phone what was going on with Aryeh, they would say that everything was fine and that he was studying.

Arya continued to look for help. He arrived at a regional clinic, was examined by the psychiatrist and sent to hospital. On the way to the hospital he asked to go home claiming he had forgotten a book. The father went with him and it turned out that he tried to take a gun he had at home. revealed to his father suicidal thoughts. In this condition he was admitted to hospital.


status


On initial examination, he appeared according to his age, orderly in appearance, in great psychomotor restlessness. He carried out the instructions given to him. Aryeh's face and eyes expressed great suffering, anxiety and depression. His consciousness was clear, his orientation in time, place and situation were normal. The effect was markedly anxious with a depressive undertone.

He tried to explain his feelings, he reported feeling derealized and depersonalized - as if everything was in a dream and he wasn't the one who did the things, he wasn't the one who left school, he wasn't the one who came to the hospital. was unable to finish any thought to the end. He told of feeling like he was going crazy, pleased that he was finally in a hospital because he could afford to be sick.

He claimed to be unable to do anything and not even talk to people. Can only talk to medical staff because they know he is sick. Expressed suicidal thoughts and even plans to commit suicide with the gun in his possession. He showed no delusions and there was no evidence of perceptual disturbances.

On physical examination: pulse around 120 per minute, regular. Sweat in the palms. Areas of depigmentation in the skin of the face, shoulders and pelvis. The rest of the physical examinations were within the norm.


Diagnostic considerations


It was difficult to reach an unequivocal clinical diagnosis at the beginning of the hospitalization: the symptoms of restlessness, severe diffuse anxiety, depressive effect, thoughts of low self-worth, feelings of guilt, suicidal thoughts together with sleep disturbances supported the diagnosis of an effective disease.

In the initial examination, it was not possible to completely rule out the possibility of a psychotic crisis as the beginning or development of a schizophrenic process. This direction was supported by severe diffuse anxiety, dysfunction and reduction of social activity in the period of about half a year before hospitalization.

At the same time, from the beginning of the hospitalization, it was possible to form a strong emotional bond with Aryeh. He seemed much calmer and reported relief after each conversation, albeit for a short time.

He sought closeness to the therapist and made great efforts to understand how he got to the situation he is in. He connected his situation with events and developments in the past, his path in life, his relations with his parents and friends, he talked a lot about the crisis in studies.

All these things sounded very relevant. There was no gap between the effect and the content of thinking and there were no signs of disturbances in the content of thinking. This made it possible to think that this was a situation of severe anxiety with panic attacks in a young man with a dependent personality who, at least throughout his adolescence, showed borderline adaptation and acted with a high level of anxiety, which he would overcome by reducing social activity and compensating for this reduction in imagination.

A sudden separation from home and parents for the first time in his life and the need to deal with the problems in reality and not in fantasy raised the level of anxiety to frequent panic attacks and caused a crisis in the middle of which he ended up in a psychiatric hospital.