Moshe, 45 years old, married + 8 children and 3 grandchildren, works as a kosher supervisor. He came to me at the beginning of the year for treatment as part of the practical training. As soon as he arrived, he started telling me about what happened in his childhood and adolescence, as from meeting to meeting the story thickened with more details that clarified the full picture. Since I am quite new to the world of therapy when I heard his story, I started looking for the professional opinion in similar cases. And that's how I first saw the term "complex post-traumatic stress disorder".
Moshe grew up in Petah Tikva, the only son of 6 children. Moshe is the middle child in the family. He told me about his father who was actually the cause of the abuse in his life and the trauma he went through. From a young age, his father abused him physically and verbally in a very severe way. I will present here the examples he told me: If Moshe said bad words, his father would force him to eat spicy food and chew it, while laughing at him. There were times when he would hit him with wet herbs so that he would be in extra pain. There was a time when Moshe came home late and his father took an electric cable and beat him until he had marks on his body. Moshe was always forced to go with his father to a distant synagogue, and on the way to the synagogue there were dogs, his father would tell him to pass by them even though he knew that Moshe was very afraid of them. If he didn't do homework, his father would throw his notebooks out the window. In between, his father would call him derogatory names, he would be a fool, a bad seed, and other expressions of this kind. In the synagogue he would be forbidden to go outside in the middle of the prayer and would threaten him many times that he would beat him. There were times when his father woke him up and started beating him because he thought he had done something that upset him. Even in front of Moshe's friends he could shout at him and shame him without any consideration for him. He always instilled fear in him, he would speed him up in everything to do it quickly and not delay. would tell him that he eats a lot and that he won't eat anymore. His mother and sisters also suffered from the father who treated them harshly. There was a time when he beat his mother with a hammer. And so Moshe grew up all his years in plagues with suffering and great stress.
Over the years, Moshe got married and left his parents' home. But despite the distance, and despite the years that have passed, he is still unable to free himself from past experiences. He is constantly depressed, lacks self-confidence in front of society and his family. The relationship with his children is problematic, and he is unable to find the right way for them. He is resentful of his life, unable to hold conversations with people from society. Even in the spiritual and religious aspect, he finds it difficult to fulfill his duties, for example he does not pray in the minyan, watches problematic and inappropriate content. When he tried to share his unhappy past with people close to him over the years, the responses he received were dismissive and dismissive. He was told that it is better for him to ignore the past and enjoy the present, his big family and not bother with his childhood.