Uri (pseudonym) is a 20-year-old transgender boy who has been working in prostitution for five years. In the first conversations between us, he mainly complains about laziness, heaviness and fatigue which he attributes to various events in his life. He is silent for a long time and speaks with great effort. He brings up many memories from his childhood and episodes of sad events. He is sad and speaks very slowly, quietly, about loneliness in his childhood, about a neglectful mother and about the experience of being invisible. In about a month we are moving to meet individually at the clinic in my home instead of at the clinic at the treatment center. Thus begins a process that looks like falling in love but actually expresses a powerful erotic transfer towards me.

At first he woos and invites me to hang out. Then, explicitly and blatantly for sexual relations. When he fails to convince me, he changes his destination again: to join him at social events, to accompany him with my hand on his arm, to "put on a performance" like no other, to stun everyone. Later he offers "softer" suggestions: to take part in a big party held at his house.

Over time, falling in love becomes very powerful and sexual. The boy is not ready to talk about anything else except his love for me and the huge desire for physical contact between us: "I want you, A--------- and no one else", "I want you as a flesh-and-blood woman. You are attractive, you are sexy, you are a woman And I desire you." He invites me to spend time with him, travel abroad with him, come to parties.

He repeats that he loves me and in response I explain that I will not be able to fulfill his requests as they are despite everything I feel for him. He replies: "I'm not worth what you feel if you don't actually show it to me. How can I believe you?" I explain that I understand the disappointment that I can't realistically give what he asks for, and that I'm sorry that he feels insulted and rejected even though I don't mean it. And he replies: "Yes, it's insulting and one day you'll pay for it....one day you'll regret it."

The disappointment of the lack of fulfillment of erotic desire colors his feelings. At first he blames me for the joy of life leaving him and for the lack of energy and loneliness he feels in my midst: "You spoiled my joy of life, you spoiled the fun of coming here and having fun, you spoiled the special hours I had here with you. I had dreams, everything went..." The blame that he slaps me turns into a terrible anger that burns inside him: "You forced me, because of you... I feel bad... it's hard for me like this... you make me helpless... you take away the joy of life, the vigor, the vitality" .

Over time he becomes more and more aggressive in his words, the complaints are replaced by attacks in every possible way, he shouts, curses and accuses; At times it switches to quiet but venomous tones. He rejects my existence in the therapeutic space, makes sure to inform me that he will not continue to come, and declares that he hates me. I understand that my response is too heavy to bear. When he suggests that we stop meeting privately, I agree with him and we stop meeting at the private clinic and return to the format of meetings at the treatment center. His desire, which becomes an uncompromising demand, oppresses me. I hear the despair and become desperate myself. While he is suffering I feel a sharp pain in my chest. I am compassionate, sorry, asking to help deal with the pain. His emotional intensities fill the therapeutic space. Indeed, "powerful erotic transference is one of the most powerful and challenging phenomena in clinical psychology" (Gabbard, 1994, p.385).

The case of Uri (pseudonym) is an example of a deep regression which, from the moment it began to occur, revealed another character within him, just like in the story about Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. The therapeutic meeting over time led to trust that allowed Uri to return to what would later turn out to be the breaking point of his childhood The transition from the public space to the private space (from the treatment center to the home clinic) symbolized the beginning of a regression, following which harsh and cruel aggression emerged in the therapeutic session.

Winnicott (1963) says that he witnessed a similar move when his patient, who was afraid of falling in love with him, sought to destroy him in order to save himself from the threatening emotion. During the treatment I felt a similar feeling that Uri was also trying to destroy me. The attacks of aggression were used as a means to destroy the love he felt for me or an attempt to destroy me so as not to love me anymore; To destroy the being of falling in love and at the same time also the feeling of rejection, humiliation, betrayal and potential pain.